If you've fallen in love with a timber framed garage, but aren't too sure if a timber framed building kit is right for you, look no further. Today Monarch Oak takes a look at the world of DIY framing kits, and whether they're right for you.

# Why timber framed garages are trending

Masonry has, of course, been a staple of the British building industry for generations. Yet timber frame buildings are some of the most widely used structural building materials in the world. 

There is no 'one true building method' that's best to use for every situation. It will always depend on the location, the exact features you want, and the aesthetics you love. Yet there's no denying that timber framed buildings to have some advantages over other building styles:

They are considerably faster to put up, whether using a pro team or a building kit, than any other housing method. This can be especially so in the U.K. It's near impossible to work on your building in adverse weather conditions- and we sure do have a lot of those! This means trades which cannot work in bad weather- like your electricians- can move in considerably faster. No waiting months for plaster to dry!

Wood walls are designed to hold the heat better, despite their thinner construction. For garages, specifically, this means that you will have knock-on advantages to your vehicle, ensuring an easy start in the morning. Timber is a great way to keep moist air at bay, especially as the wood itself is balanced for your area, and does not draw heat out of the atmosphere either. What's even better, of course, is that timber framed buildings don't encourage condensation (and all the woes that come with it). COndensation forms when moist air cools rapidly on a surface. The warm nature of wood means that this extreme doesn't occur, keeping you condensation-free and happier.

If sound insulation is important to you, don't worry that your timber framed garage will come up short there, either. While thick masonry does have an advantage here, it's super easy to tweak your build to ensure sound-proofing is considered.

# Are pests a problem with timber framed garages?

We've spoken a lot about moisture already. It's important to realise that oak, among all timbers, is one of the most rot-resistant woods there are. By nature, it gets denser and more resistant to unfavourable incursions as it ages. Just look up in any British Cathedral to see how long oak will last you! Of course, some finishes added to oak framed buildings are not as robust, so make a wise choice- but with Monarch Oak you'll have the peace of mind of knowing your build is made to last. A well-built and well-made oak frame will not fall prey to pests.

Counter-intuitive as it may seem, timber framed garages can also be a safer choice for people should a disaster like a fire break out. Wood burns, of course, but then again both steel and masonry will also disintegrate under high heat. What few realise is that even in the event of a disaster, wood will have their back. Where Steel frames will absorb heat and then fail catastrophically, it's a longer, slower process should your timber framed building be exposed to fire. Sections exposed to fire damage will turn to charcoal, insulating beams from further damage. Extensive repairs may be needed- but your possessions and, most importantly, the people who call it home, have a far better chance at a safe, non-traumatic building escape than in a masonry home.

# Is a timber framed building kit right for me?

When you order one of our timber framed garages in kit form, you will still have access to a wide range from our standard designs. Gable and hip barn-end roofs are both available, and you can even incorporate half-bays, aisles and log stores. The same Monark Oak quality is there, and our skilled craftsmen preassemble most joints prior to delivery to ensure a simple experience. Do remember that you can choose to self-erect the kit, or have one of our teams handle it for you. You can choose between a standard kit (where you will need to add some extras) or a full-parts kit, where everything is included.

But is a DIY timber framed garage the right route for you? Chances are the answer could be yes!

Because of the standardised nature of our building kits, we're able to offer them at a price that will fit a tight budget far more seamlessly than if you go for a bespoke build. With all the styles open to you, you're sure to find the right match, too! The manufacturing process will already be complete (bar some joint assembly), and the entire process of getting your garage fully installed will be quicker. This standardisation also means we can get your kit to you with considerably less waiting time then if we have to construct your design from the (literal) ground up. It's easier to transport, and we can get it to you in a far wider geographic area too.

Remember that you can always opt to use one of our kits, and still have our teams of professional fitters assist you with getting it erected, if you'd like to experience the very best of both worlds. No matter whether you opt for the DIY timber framed building kit route, or go all-in with a bespoke design and construction, you can rest assured that the same Monarch Oak quality shines through.

