Working from home can be both a blessing and stressful. Sure, you have more freedom then you usually would, and that additional schedule flexibility is probably very welcome about now. But with summer fading, the current situation not much resolved, and a lot of uncertainty about many things globally, you may find that your spirits are a little low. We can’t guarantee much in the current world, but there’s one thing Monarch Oak can guarantee- working from home in a garden office will make life feel a whole lot better.

## What is an oak garden room?

Garden rooms offer a stylish and practical upgrade to both your home and garden. With classic oak frames and plenty of light-catching glass, the garden room captures the spirit and warmth of summer all year long. We take great pains to ensure your garden room complements the style of your home, and blends seamlessly into your landscaping too. Curved bracing and pegged joints add a timeless quality to the work, ensuring your structure will look good for years to come.

But style isn’t everything. We also make sure to use efficient, high-level insulation to ensure the room stays cool in summer but warm in winter. We know that a room’s true purpose is to be loved and used, not merely looked at! With the British climate what it is, it’s important that the room remains at a comfortable temperature year-round. Too many conservatories, garden rooms, home offices and other property-enhancing structures lie abandoned for much of the year, too unpleasant to use… but not with Monarch Oak on your side!

We also use cavity wall brickwork, an insulated roof, and double-glazed hardwood joinery to keep your garden room feeling great, no matter the weather. With stylish looks and practical purpose, your new oak framed office will blend seamlessly into your life.

## The new reality of the home office

For many of us, the lockdown home office scenario crept up unexpectedly, and chances are you don’t already have a space at home you can dedicate as a working environment. You may be managing to get the job done while cramped at the end of the kitchen table, but it’s not exactly a supportive or productive work environment to find yourself in. With the rest of the family home from work, college or school, it’s probably a busy place, too. Excess noise and stimulation in your working environment is a known distraction- especially with little ones or pets on hand who don’t fully understand why you can’t play 24/7.

With working from home fast becoming part of the new normal, it’s time to stop treating your daily workspace as an afterthought, and instead turn your mind to creating a positive working space you can use to keep your career on track. Temporary measures may have worked for a while, but you’re not going to be pulling your weight at work until you can settle down to working effectively and productively each day.

## Why opt for an oak garden room as your office?

Believe it or not, the factors that go into creating a better office space are well studied at this point. Even if they meant them for use by corporates designing their new offices, those same principals tell us exactly what goes into crafting a happy, healthy working space. One thing comes out on top every single time- and that’s light. Open, airy spaces with plenty of light help improve your concentration at work, keep the ideas flowing and generally boost workplace happiness. 

While any quiet space could be converted into an office at a pinch, a garden office has a ton of positive factors working in its favour. There’s all that light, for one thing- the perfect way to help you balance the temptations of the last days of summer with the realities of your workload. Your garden is probably also in full bloom at the moment, and a well-placed garden room is the perfect way to bring colour and creativity into your working environment. Not only does this stave off boredom and depression, it’s the perfect setting to help you reframe your thoughts and concentrate on meeting your deadlines without feeling deprived or depressed. After all, one of the perks of working from home is that you don’t have to sit in a cubicle farm all day, so why spend your working hours staring at a wall?

Lastly, your garden office allows you some separation from the home environment. This can be psychologically important, as many of us struggle to keep to our working hours (and stave off familial interruptions) without the right motivation. With a separate home office, you can work undisturbed- and leave your work behind when it’s outside of working hours, too.

And the best part of all? Using an oak framed office will leave you with a value-enhancing addition to your home even when you rejoin the 9 to 5 workforce full time, making it a smart investment as well as a beautiful talking point.

Keen to get your oak-framed office underway? The Monarch Oak team is on hand to help you make the most of your space today.
