In the building world, we tend to assume everything is very clear cut. Either you’re able to do something fully DIY, or you have to leave it to the pros. Did you know that BIY, or ‘Buy It Yourself’, offers an amazing middle ground to help you squeeze value out of your project without compromising quality or safety? Today Monarch Oak takes a look at this exciting new concept, and how it could work for you.

## Firstly, what is Buy It Yourself?

If you’ve got a tight budget and still want a value-for-money project that’s put up by a skilled tradesperson, BIY offers the middle ground you’ve been looking for. Here, you will still use the outsourced expertise of a tradesman to help you get the item put together safely. This is also the best way ahead if compliance, planning or other council interference is needed for the project. You won’t have to research anything, or handle the permitting yourself. You’ll have the peace of mind of knowing everything is 100% safety compliant, every step of the way, in the hands of an experienced expert and their crew.

Yet, there’s no actual need to always buy from your chosen tradesmen. By nature (and to be fair), any goods your tradesman has to source for you will carry a markup. After all, it’s their time spent sourcing the items, and they’re fronting the money to purchase them, too. While sometimes this will play in your favour- like when they can capitalise on bulk orders or secret insider sources- sometimes it doesn’t. You may well end up paying a premium for goods you could have purchased from the manufacturer yourself. This is most noticeable when they would have to single- order an item for you, or if you’re using bespoke designs.

With our spectacular Buy It Yourself trade oak kits, you have the chance to purchase all the materials you need directly from us. This gives you access to our fantastic prices and quality oak construction. Then you can use the tradesperson you trust most to help you erect it. It’s a win-win from start to finish, and you’ll soon be sitting in your new oak framed building, enjoying the warmth and lustre of this iconic English wood. This inevitably works out cheaper for you overall, while still giving you all the benefits of skill and expertise where you need it.

## The Buy It Yourself future

The building industry isn’t the only place you will find Buy It Yourself as a concept. You may already be using it, if you’ve purchased hosting for your website but had a designer work on it, for example! It’s a process that’s becoming increasingly common throughout a host of industries, because it combines the very best of expertise with cost savings without having to sacrifice the quality of the end project. You’re able to work with the solutions or manufacturers you wish, not ones which were chosen for you. Yet you can also use the skills of an expert to pull it together into the final product. More and more industries are turning to BIY as a middle ground for their more discerning clients. Monarch Oak is proud to lead the charge for the oak framed industry.

## Let’s talk about trade kits

It does hinge on there being something like a trade kit you can buy for your project, of course. You’re probably already familiar with our wonderful DIY Oak Building kits, where everything you need for your project is packaged into one cohesive whole you can buy. This is a perfect example of a Buy It Yourself trade oak kit. You’re going directly to the manufacturer, and sourcing (almost) everything you need in one easy kit. This is the ideal purchase for a BIY project, as you know everything needed is included in the kit- you won’t find out you failed to account for half of the necessary fixtures and fittings because you didn’t have trade knowledge.

Without such guidance, BIY can become a double-edged sword, as you’re highly likely to mess up somewhere along the line unless you have industry experience yourself. So it’s not a solution that’s ideal for every circumstance. For our gorgeous oak frame trade kits, however, it’s the perfect way to get exactly what you want, at a price you love too.

Keen to explore the idea of BIY further? Our skilled team is always on-hand to chat with you. They’ll be able to give you all the information you require on our Buy It Yourself trade oak kits. We also keep a list of recommended installers, if you’re looking to get the job done quickly and professionally without any further hassle. With our huge range of scintillating designs at your disposal, you’re sure to find exactly what you’re looking for. We do offer bespoke services if you have something very specific in mind, however. Whether it’s a one-, two-, or three-bay garage, with or without additional room, or offices, outbuildings, and more, we have the design that you’ve been looking for. 

We’ve harnessed our decades of expertise in the oak and carpentry industries to ensure each and every trade oak kit that leaves our premises is high quality and will bring joy for decades to come. We’re proud to call ourselves the UK’s Kings of Oak- why not put us to the test today? Monarch Oak’s team is on hand to help you every step of the way.
