Did you know that, in addition to our bespoke services, Monarch Oak also has a broad and versatile range of ready-to-assemble single oak garage kits at your disposal? If you are looking for a quick, yet gorgeous, solution to parking on the street and you love the challenge of DIY, there is no better solution for you. And it could not be easier - from the initial but to the final product, you’ll soon have a garage space you are proud of.

## Know your space

So, you have decided a green oak garage is right for you? The first - and perhaps the most important - step towards your new outbuilding is knowing what space you are working with. You do not want to fall in love with something that is completely impractical, after all! There are two key aspects to this simple groundwork. Firstly, you need to know the physical dimensions of the space you are working with. Do not forget that this works in 3D, either! You will need to carefully and accurately measure the height, length and breadth of the area you would like your garage to fill.

While flashing a tape measure quickly around may seem like enough, rather invest a little time in this stage, and peg out the general area with pegs and string. This gives you a tangible area to see, making planning your garage much more visual and visceral. You will have something physical in place to get a sense for the space the finished product will occupy, and can tweak and refine it to perfection without any existing commitment to a specific DIY garage kit in place. 

As we cautioned earlier, don’t forget the vertical aspect of this stage. While most of our single oak garage kits are the same height, it is important to factor that height into your plans. Is the garage space you measured too close to the neighbour’s wall, or will it cause unwanted shade on a prized flowerbed? Will you need to cut back surrounding trees to prepare the space? Now is also a great time to check with the house plans for underlying pipes (gas, water or sewage) and be sure you are not making any oopsies with your planned location.

Once you are happy with your rough draft, it is time to carefully measure your space. Do this several times, and make sure you are being super accurate - there is a reason the old phrase is *measure twice, cut once*. A careless mistake here can be disastrous, so take your time and be accurate. 

## Choose your DIY garage kit

With that important preliminary work out the way, it is time to have fun! Our fantastic range of single oak garage kits (or larger if you are thinking more ambitiously) are designed to suit a wide variety of sizes, tastes and situations. Give a little thought to how your green oak garage will blend with the rest of the house. Consider looking for similar features - like roof style and pitch- to help it blend seamlessly with the surrounding home. Most of all, however, make sure the style is one that appeals to you, has the features you need, and which you can see yourself using and enjoying for years to come.

## Get in touch!

Now you know exactly which DIY garage kit you want, how to budget for it, and that it will fit right in where you need it, it is time to get your order placed. Do not forget, however, that almost all garage buildings meet the requirements to need council building control, and possibly also planning permission. Luckily, our friendly sales team have all the knowledge you need to help make that a smooth and easy process, so just hop on the phone. Not only will our experts be able to walk you through the planning/building control process and get your order in hand, they will also give you expert tips and advice for making the most of your kit if you are choosing to erect it yourself.

## Breaking the ground

Once your kit is in order and you have the expertise of our pros on-hand to help, it is time to start the groundwork for your DIY garage kit. Remember, while we deliver everything you need for the structure intact, you will need to break and prepare the ground to provide a stable and safe base for the structure. We will not go into too much detail here, especially as needs will vary based on design. You need to plan for a sturdy foundation layer (mostly builders will opt for a brick and concrete platform-style foundation and footing) that is robust enough to stand up to the weight of your vehicle(s) over the decades. Given that British weather loves to be gloomy, it is also worth planning for good drainage at this point, so your new structure will have seamless, unproblematic drainage throughout its long life. If you are planning to pave or concrete around the garage, now is a great time to consider those logistics too. 

## Let the DIY garage kit do the rest

Once you have these beginnings in place, your garage kit will contain everything you need to get your oak in place. Our experts will guide you through the intricacies of ensuring you have built a garage that will last- and look beautiful- for years to come. Do not forget to order and plan your roof for a seamless blend into the surroundings!

## Enjoy the fruits of your labour!

With your gorgeous new garage seamlessly slotted into your property, it is time to enjoy the fruit of all that hard work. With the time and attention you took in your preliminary steps, and the quality construction of every Monarch Oak product behind you, you can rest assured that your single oak garage kit will be drawing jealous looks from the neighbours for years to come!
