What does your garden mean to you? For many of us, it’s not just about creating a pretty patch of flowers to look at. It’s about establishing the idea of your garden as an integral part of your home. Are you tired of trudging through dull mud to your door? Would you like to enjoy your garden instead? With Monarch Oak’s exquisite and multi-use oak framed garden shelters, it’s never been easier to do exactly that! Today, we show you how a simple addition to your garden can revolutionize the way you look at your home and garden space.

## Why do the outdoors matter so much to us?

It’s been proven that natural light helps stimulate certain pathways in the human brain, helping with mood regulation. That’s not all we rely on the outdoors for, however. We all know the key role plants play in creating oxygen- and, more importantly, removing carbon from the air. Yet nature, especially our home gardens, has a much more noticeable direct effect on us as people.

There’s the practical aspects. Being outdoors gives us some chance to absorb sunlight, helping our bodies make Vitamin D. Vitamin D is a key part of our mood regulation, too, and yet many of us are deficient. Lifestyles that have come to rely on devices and staying indoors, especially through the last year, has brought this to a crisis point. Gardening, and simply enjoying time in the garden, is also great for our bodies. It encourages cardio and load-bearing exercise, making it heart-healthy and great for the lungs. You stretch and squat, and it doesn’t feel like effort because of the beauty around you. It also brings us into greater contact with dirt and pollen. While hayfever sufferers may cringe at the notion, for children, especially, this is a key part of developing a healthy immune system to keep them safe for years to come. It can even help keep adults safer and healthier more naturally. 

Let’s go back to our reliance on technology, however. We all know the burn-out feeling of being too connected for too long. It’s not just in your head! Spending time in nature, disconnected from the beeps and blips of tech, helps us decompress and regulates key hormones like adrenaline and cortisol. It also helps regulate our sleep cycle. In short, we just feel better when we use our gardens!

## Making your garden part of your home

So gardens don’t just look pretty- they’re an integral part of the human psyche, allowing us a green space in which to relax, unwind, and rejuvenate the soul. It’s for exactly this reason that there has been a focus in recent years on creating green belts, and even incorporating nature into office building designs.

Let’s face it, however. It’s not as easy to live an outdoors lifestyle in the U.K as it can be in other parts of the world. Here, we often have to face dull weather that can leave our gardens off-limits for big chunks of the year. Even on a rare, bright mid-winter day when you want to slip outside and enjoy the brightness, having a dingy, ill cared-for garden that’s clogged with winter debris and howling with wind is a downer.
Evolve your garden into a practical, pretty space
Enter the oak framed garden shelter.

Some of the beauty lies in its very simplicity. Our most bare-boned oak framed garden shelters simply carve you a beautiful, timeless and all-natural space within your garden, to use as you please. From there, of course, you’re fully able to tweak and customize the design to your heart’s content. Add skylights and sun windows. Enclose a wall, or add a lattice to grow something beautiful over. Pave underneath, or add a raised deck in matching warm wood. Add some storage for entertainment or gardening items. It’s up to you and your imagination.

With the warmth and lustre of oak, your oak framed garden shelter evokes the very best of British architecture, making use of an all-natural building material that can blend in with the view seamlessly. It doesn’t matter if you have a super-formal, thoroughly landscaped garden, or favour a riot of wildflowers, the designs can fit in anywhere. They bring you not only a practical space that extends the seasonality of your garden and allows you to take advantage of the weather more often, but it also recreates the idea of your garden as an extension of your home.

## Do anything you like with an oak framed garden shelter

Many of us imagine a garden room or oak framed garden shelter as an entertainment space. It’s true, they make for an awesome and versatile alternative to indoor dining and entertainment. Yet why stop there? This could be your outdoor woodshop, making cleanup a breeze and ensuring you spray or sand in utter safety with great ventilation. Add a windbreak to give you a sunny spot to enjoy even chilly mornings with a book and a cup of tea. Pop your more sensitive flowers under its protection, keeping them free from frost and blooming for longer. Or go all-in and create yourself a mental wellness spot. Practice yoga and dance with shelter and away from prying eyes. Dig deep into your favourite hobby while surrounded by fresh air and natural beauty (and free from distractions you’d face inside). Wherever your imagination takes you, an oak framed garden shelter will help make it a reality.

Are you ready to reimagine your garden into a thriving space? Contact the Monarch Oak team today, and we’ll help you find the oak framed garden shelter of your dreams today.
