So, you want a timber-framed garage kit, but don’t know if you should have it professionally fitted or put the work in yourself? Monarch Oak has long been the UK’s number one supplier of oak framed garages, both professionally fitted and via a convenient DIY kit, so we have all the perspective you need to help you make the right decision. Here’s the key areas to consider before you jump into a DIY job.

## 1. Consider your schedule first

Let’s face it. The number 1 killer of most DIY jobs is not skill, ease or effort- it's overestimating your free time. We’re in a unique world space at the moment, where you may have a ton more time on your hands than you ever have before. That’s perfect for DIY projects!  One of the great things about using a kit is that you get almost everything in one, pre-planned, and this shortens the time needed to actually get it up, too. But if you’re naturally super busy, even though you have the skills to do a project like erecting your own timber framed garage kit, you may wish to consider if it’s realistic for you to squeeze it into your schedule. Rule of thumb says DIY jobs by non-builders can take up to 5 times the length you think they will, so bear that in mind. If chances are you’ll be too busy or too tired to get it done, you may want to hire a professional instead. 

## 2.Now consider your skills

So you’ve decided that you probably do have the time to get your project done. Now it’s time to be very realistic. Do you know how to do what’s needed? 

Fortunately, with any Monarch Oak timber framed garage kit, you’re not going to need to be in the trades just to get one up! We’ve done our utmost to ensure that the erection process is as simple as can be, so you’ll only need average DIY skills. However, the key area that will need your attention is creating the footing and slab for your future garage. If you’re not confident you have the know-how to do this correctly, you may be better off with a professional on your team. 

## 3.Do you have the tools needed?

Alongside the basic know-how to stop DIY becoming a disaster, you’ll need a few tools to help you get the job done. Again, we’ve done our best to ensure your timber-framed garage kits are as accessible as possible, so there isn’t an exhausting list to wade through. Don’t forget to plan what you’ll need for your roof style of choice and your footings, too!

Another piece of good news is that you don’t always have to own tools you’ll only need once or twice in your lifetime. Not only can you ask among friends who may have the equipment you need, there’s also the opportunity to rent from a plant company. Just remember to plan ahead- you don’t want to be standing waist-deep in a trench before you notice your shovel is missing! It’s also a good plan to factor any tool hire into your budget.

## 4.Remember the other trades

When you’ve decided to purchase your timber framed garage kit, don’t just get hyper-focused on the building itself. We’ve mentioned the foundation slab already. Very few of us simply want a four-sided box from our garage. You’re likely to, at the very least, wish to install electrical wiring so you can have lights. If you’re taking advantage of a garage with a room over it, you may also wish fancier amenities such as plumbing for a bar or bathroom.

A DIY timber framed garage kit needn’t be all or nothing. If you have the skills to raise the building, but not dig the foundations or add the electrics, there’s absolutely nothing wrong with saving some money and doing the building yourself while planning to have a pro roll out the footings and finish the electrics. What is important is that you end up with a safe, secure structure that will grow into your home, add value, and fit into your life seamlessly. Don’t try DIY electrics if you don’t have the skills, only to end up with a fire hazard on your hands. In short, it’s fine to be the general contractor and make smart use of subcontractors to balance aesthetics, skills, safety and budget perfectly.

## 5.Does BIY suit you better?

There’s not just the choice of doing it yourself or hiring a pro. BIY, or ‘Buy it Yourself’, is a growing industry that allows homeowners the freedom to save by acquiring all the goods, materials and more they need to finish their project, but still using the carefully honed expertise of a professional to install it. It’s a great way to get the very best of both worlds- a saving of roughly 20% on merely handing the reins to a pro, but the reassurance of a beautiful, high-standard result from the project.

That’s why we’ve opted to offer you the chance to purchase one of our timber-framed garage kits, but opt to have it installed by a pro near you. They’re super-familiar with our kits, allowing them to get the job done speedily and with fantastic results, but you still get the cost savings and full creative control the kit offers you. 

Whether you opt to have your timber-framed garage kit installed by a pro, or are confident you have what it takes to get the job done, one thing is for certain- Monarch Oak’s timber-framed garage kits offer you convenience, speed and hassle-free building in one gorgeous oak package. 
