If you're considering having an oak-framed garage added to your property, and would like a little more information on oak framed garage costs and considerations, you've come to the right place! Today the Monarch Oak team take a closer look at choosing, and budgeting for, your oak framed garage.

## Why choose oak at all?

Why opt for an oak framed garage at all? Perhaps you're on the fence as to whether to opt for oak framing, or take a traditional masonry approach.  Obviously, it will always depend on your tastes and preferences, but there's a few key areas in which oak is a winner:

+ **Speed (and ease) of construction**: You will have your garage erected in a matter of days, not weeks, and which considerably less construction disruption to the property. In the UK climate, it's also worth noting that oak has a relatively 'dry' construction process. Plastering or electric wiring can begin quickly once the frame is watertight, and you won't be waiting for mortar to dry for weeks on end.

+ **Eco-footprint**: Oak from environmentally managed woodlands will endure for centuries, yet can easily be grown, replaced and controlled. If you're looking for a sustainable and eco-friendly building material, look no further.

+ **Natural insulation**:  Timber has natural heat insulation inbuilt, and oak framed garages are quicker to heat and slower to cool then brick or concrete structures.

##How do I make my oak framed garage cost as little, and look as good, as possible?

As the old saying goes, the key is in the details when determining how to meld your new extension seamlessly into your home. For example, if you're hoping to avoid dealing with the planning department, you'll need to have a look at the structure size you intend, and whether you can opt for a size that needs reduced (or even no) planning permission. Knowing what will and won't be expected of you legislation-wise is a key step in the pre-planning for your oak framed garage.

Now it's time to think big, too. Do you just want to use the space for cars, or do you have other vehicles to accommodate? Are you considering adding a second level, office or even a hobby cave to the space to add some wow factor? If you have a solid idea of how you'd like to use the space at the planning stage, you can manage your oak framed garage's cost as well as ensure the resulting addition is exactly what you want.

It's also important to make sure that you choose a layout that will mesh well with the aesthetics of your property. Of course, there's a balancing act between style and cost, but oak is a versatile material and it's easy to ensure your chosen design looks bespoke and melds seamlessly with the property to ensure the addition adds value and curb appeal.

## Oak framed garage costs- balancing budget and style for a perfect design

Here at Monarch Oak, we pride ourselves in helping you find the perfect match for your needs *and* wants. We can assist you in creating your garage in many different ways. If you have a reliable building contractor you favour, or the skills to do it yourself, we offer a wide range of DIY kits which will be delivered to your premises along with dull instructions. Otherwise, you can opt to have your garage fully-fitted by our experts.

## Bespoke garage options

As your neighbourhood oak frame specialists, Monarch oak offers a range of oak framed garages in many designs, created bespoke to your needs. We can create single, double, triple and quadruple bay options, all created around attractive, traditional styles.

We can also create bespoke 2-storey garage designs, be it to incorporate a home office, expand your living space, or for any other purpose. Whatever you need, we can help you create the ideal living solution.

While our bespoke oak framed garage costs will need to be discussed on a case-by-case basis, we also offer a convenient range of oak framed garage kits that offer you dependable, adaptable style that will add value to your life.

Our one bay garage kits start at a super-convenient £2650 through to £3150, depending on the precise design and structural features.  We also offer 12 two-bay oak framed garage designs, each of which will feature a gable, hip or barn-end roof profile. Despite being roomy enough for 2 vehicles, some of the plans are under the 30m2 limit for building regulations and planning permission. Budget  £3350 to  £4050 here, depending on which design catches your eye.

Lastly, but certainly not least, we have 3 bay designs for you to choose from. While these will all require a little work on planning permission, each offers a stunning profile and long-lasting versatility that will be adding joy to your home for years to come. The range opens at  £4950, and even the most expensive of the 3-bay designs will only set you back £5750

As you can see, oak framed garage costs are tiny in comparison with the versatility and value they add to your home. If you'd like to narrow down the right design for you, discuss a bespoke project, or just get more information on your choice, don't be afraid to get in touch with the Monarch Oak team today- we're always here to help!
