Whether our oak gazebos have caught your eye and you need the perfect excuse to purchase, or you're just seeking a patch of summer shade and a little inspiration, there's nothing like this classic garden fixture to enhance your home. Today Monarch Oak takes a look at the many reasons your house needs an oak gazebo today- just in time for some summer fun!

# Beat the heat

This one is pretty obvious, of course! An oak gazebo is the perfect way to make delicious summer shade without the upkeep, hassle and fuss of growing a large shade tree. Not that that means you can't indulge your green thumbs too! They can also be decorated with potted plants for easy upkeep, or you can train a flowering vine onto the structure for the ultimate in garden beauty. No matter what route you take, however, you're guaranteed cooling shade without the need to prune annually, fight with neighbours over boundaries, or rake up leaves all autumn. What could be better than that? The many other reasons to add an oak gazebo to your garden this summer, of course!

# Improve your house with a long-lasting, easy-care feature

Curb appeal is important in determining the retail value of a home. An oak gazebo can enhance even the smallest or most awkward garden space, adding a long-lasting, hard-wearing structure that needs relatively little upkeep but will keep looking good for years to come. Whether it's keeping up with the Joneses, making your own space feel more like home, or helping sell your house as they imagine birthday parties and magic moments on the property, you'll find an oak gazebo the perfect way to brighten up your space.

Oak gazebos help create a focal point in any garden, encouraging people to gather there and enjoy the outside space in a way they may not otherwise, no matter how attractive your garden otherwise. Even pets are guaranteed to love having a special place to flop and relax after a hard play session!

# *Al fresco* dining made easy

All the beauty of al fresco dining, with none of the hassle! As summer nights stretch out and the warm weather lingers into the evening, it's going to be tempting to spend time in the garden. What better way to celebrate the season than with a delicious meal under the stars? With an oak gazebo to enjoy, you'll never have the issues that can detract from your fun… it's comfortable to sit, you can have a proper table laid, and it's easy to light and keep bugs away. You can even toss a warming fire pit into the mix with the right design, so you can continue to enjoy the outdoors even if it's a little nippy or misty.

And, of course, there's no better way to wake up than sipping a cup of tea or coffee and enjoying the sights of your garden waking up with you. Whether it's your own enjoyment or as the centre of your entertainment hub, you'll find whole new vistas of fun and dining both opening up to you with your new oak gazebo.

# Increase your space with an 'outdoor room'

We spoke above about how an oak gazebo acts as a focal point in the garden to draw people out. Think of it as an extension of your living space. You can decorate and enjoy it the way you would any other room, with all the beauty of nature around you to lighten the mood. Both functional and decorative, you'll be extending your living space in a meaningful way that will help life feel less pressured and more fun.

# Enjoy some meditative contemplation (and privacy)

Life is pressured, after all! While summer can often take some of the stress out of daily living, finding time- and a space- to unwind in is still difficult. With your brand new oak gazebo beckoning you into the quiet contemplativeness of your garden, you'll find carving out 'me time' much easier- and enjoy all the benefits of relaxation with none of the fuss. 

Even when you're in the mood to party, you probably don't want nosy neighbours intruding on your private function. An oak gazebo creates added garden privacy without cramping your own style or ruining the flow of the area. Whether it's a sunbathing nook or the perfect spot for a table-for-two, you can keep your business private and yet enjoy your outside space all the more.

An oak gazebo is guaranteed to enhance any garden. From welcome summer shade to the many memories you'll make under its protective roof, your new gazebo will set the perfect tone for a summer packed full of fun, romance, relaxation and delicious dining- and it couldn't be simpler to add to your pace, either! Why not give Monarch Oak a call today, and let us help you find the perfect pergola for your needs… you'll wonder how you ever celebrated a summer without it!



