As the turmoil of one of the strangest years on record finally begins to fade into the background, we’re seeing a return to normalcy. Yet, according to many reputable business sources in the UK, that doesn’t necessarily mean a return to the office any more! As many companies who had to adapt to the world of remote working fast last year decide to allow their workforce more flexible options going into the future, there’s one key question remaining- are you ready to stay away from the office, yet maintain a high standard of work? Monarch Oak is here to help you make your work from home dreams a solid reality. 

## Back to work - virtually!

Let’s be honest. For many of us, we’ve been too afraid to hope that our bosses will finally see the merits of a more flexible work schedule. So it hasn’t felt so bad working from home in a cramped space cleared at the end of the kitchen table. It was only ‘for now’, after all. 

If the digital landscape is truly changing, however, that kind of ‘temporary fix’ is becoming more and more untenable. Not only does cramming yourself into any available space at home, surrounded by distractions, remove many of the noted benefits of working from home, it’s also going to increasingly become a no-no in the corporate space. Last March we had to do what was necessary to keep the wheels of industry spinning. By now, your boss is going to expect more from you, especially if you’re in a competitive industry or looking for a promotion.

Creating your own dedicated workspace is an essential part of setting yourself up for work from home success. Yet the last thing you need right now is weeks of messy, noisy construction work taking up your precious concentration and time. Fortunately, there’s a better way!

## Oak: your answer to work from home success

What if we told you it’s easier than ever to install an oak home office? Whether you want an addition over a garage, or dream of sipping coffee in front of your laptop from a gloriously sunny oak garden room, we can help you find the perfect solution for your work from home needs.

While all construction needs some ground preparation, using an oak home office allows you to considerably reduce the disruption around you- most of the nitty-gritty of construction is handled in our workshops offsite, with the unit being shipped to you ready for assembly. This goes for both our DIY oak framed garage kits and our bespoke creations. Once it’s up, there’s no lengthy wait times (especially if the British weather is in a mood) while plaster or cement dries, either. Once the structure is up, you can immediately bring in other trades like an electrician or plumber to finish off. In fact, you can even choose to DIY the process entirely, although we would always recommend you using one of our installation teams to ensure the smoothest process possible. 

What’s even better is, despite the ease of erection, you’ll still be adding value to your home with a gorgeous space that can even be repurposed later on should you need. Whether you opt to make a unique oak garden room into the office of your dreams, or add a practical room over your garage to ensure privacy and quiet, an oak home office will enhance your life over and over again. 

Once your oak home office is up, that’s it- no need for further hassle. Just a space you can use to create the career of your dreams. How awesome is that?

## How an oak home office will help you keep your WFH career on track

Why are companies increasingly considering work from home? By now it’s pretty well documented that the additional flexibility offered by a WFH schedule entices many employees, without as much impact on productivity as you may expect. In a way, last year’s strange events have broken the cultural barrier that had us believing 9-5 under the eye of middle management was the only smart way to work. Working from home allows workers to create a better work-life balance, gives greater flexibility in where you live (also allowing companies to recruit from a wider talent pool), and reduces wasted commute times. While it’s harder to work collaboratively, and some industries are not geared for WFH, there’s many others that benefit, and still others that are contemplating having employees come in only for a day or two a week to achieve a better balance.

Not, however, if employees cannot find the space and privacy to concentrate on their work. Professionality can also be heavily impacted if children and a (potentially naked) spouse are wandering in-and-out of the shot while you try to pitch your latest great idea to the firm! In the Zoom meeting era, you need your privacy and work space. 

That’s why a dedicated home office space is increasingly important. Here you can ensure the peace and quiet you need to work productively. A closed office door can help you define your working hours, as well as remind other family members that you’re still at work, not available for chit chat and interruptions. Nor do you have to pack up at the end of every workday, allowing you to keep your work space laid out exactly as you want it without interfering in your day-to-day life. This means you can also invest in important aspects like an ergonomic desk setup that helps you stay healthy as well as productive. 

If you’re contemplating a work from home schedule, even if it’s only for part of the week, adding an oak home office or oak garden room to your property may be the smartest move you ever make. Our expert teams here at Monarch Oak are on hand to make sure you can create the space of your dreams seamlessly and without hassle, while still keeping the curb appeal of your home high, so don’t be shy to reach out today- we’re always here to help!
