Are you looking to deal with the U.K’s Number 1 expert in Oak? Don’t worry- Monarch oak doesn’t just offer the oak framed garages Sussex loves. We work throughout the U.K! So if you’re hoping to bring the magic of oak to your home, don’t hesitate to get in touch with us today. We can make the home expansion of your dreams a solid reality, hassle-free.

## Monarch Oak’s dedication to good business

While we build our oak framed garages in Sussex, we ship throughout the U.K. We are also able to offer our bespoke design services no matter where you happen to live in the Isles.

In a world where cut-rate machine work is becoming all too common, we pride ourselves in keeping to time-tested construction methods. Not only are traditional features (like curved bracing and pegged mortise and tenon joints) time-tested and reliable, they also have a lustrous beauty that can’t be matched with machined wood. Your home will showcase the difference.

Even though we offer sleek DIY oak framed kits, we still take great care to customise the measurements and other details to your precise needs. When you place an order with Monarch Oak, we do as much as possible of the initial construction off-site. This means when it arrives on-site, it’s near fully constructed by our skilled craftsmen, contributing to building speed. Each joint and plank is factory checked for snugness and quality. Keen to see the Monarch Oak difference? Hop over to your website and spend some time in our gallery of happy customers.

## Monarch Oak: The oak framed garages Sussex loves

With our award-winning craftsman and 5 decades of combined experience in the wood industry, Monarch Oak has the expertise you need to get the results you want. That’s why we’ve become the U.K’s favourite supplier of oak framed garages. 

## Why opt for oak framed buildings?

We’ve looked at the many benefits of oak framed garages in-depth before. In short, however, they’re quick to create and erect, require a lot less disturbance to the homeowner and the home surrounds, and have many traits that make them superior to brick-and-mortar. They don’t require lengthy drying times, so other trades like electricity and plumbing can get to work quickly. The natural fibrous warmth of wood, as well as the way oak settles into each other to form a continuous surface, also helps to keep buildings well insulated. This means you can enjoy a cool retreat in summer without sacrificing heat in winter. All while looking fabulous and blending near-seamlessly with your home, too!

While we’re famed as the oak framed garages Sussex loves, that’s not the only oak framed building work we do. We also offer a range of versatile gazebos and sunrooms that can combine the power of the sun with the beauty of your garden to enhance your home and make it a welcome retreat- or the perfect venue to host your loved ones. 

## I need a home office, can you help?

We certainly can! Monarch Oak understands that the world is a different place from a year ago, and you may need to find yourself a more professional working space on your property unexpectedly. That’s why we don’t just offer one-, two-, and three-bay garages, but we’re able to adapt our plans to address other areas of concern. Need to add a wood store to your garage? It’s easy! Need a room addition, separate to or on top of your new garage? We’re the experts you’re looking for. 

Because of the quick installation of an oak framed building, you can be working in your new space by the end of the week, with all services enabled. If you’re newly working from home, this gives you the chance to make a slick, professional space where you can work in peace without familial disruptions. If you happen to have a ‘walk-in’ profession, from accountancy to beauty, this also helps you create a clear delineation between work and home, and keeps customers away from your private spaces while looking more professional. 

Of course, a home office, while practical, is far from the only thing you can do with your room. Many of our clients have used their space as extra entertainment rooms- think home bars, game or hobby rooms and entertainment spaces. This gives you the perfect opportunity to dedicate a room to these activities, meaning guests and visitors don’t have to have full access to your home, and you can create a comfortable, amiable space to share. 

We’ve even had clients creatively use these rooms for family members who need a little private space on the property, such as older children or elders. Given that many of the designs attach the room directly to the garage, you can also use your space to showcase vehicle collections with an accompanying museum-style showroom to celebrate your passion.

## So, you can help me anywhere in the U.K?

That’s correct! We don’t just supply oak framed garages to Sussex, but instead to the entire country. No matter where you are in the U.K, we can help you recreate your home into a retreat you adore. Simply get in touch with our super-helpful team today to start talking about your project. We’ll soon have your oak framed garage on the way to you, hassle-free and with the stunning quality for which Monarch Oak is known.
