Before you begin your journey to finding the perfect oak framed garage for your dream home, you will have a few more practical considerations. What is the cost of an oak framed garage? Does my oak gazebo need planning permission? As your local experts on all things oak-framed, Monarch Oak are here to help you navigate the waters of bureaucracy and make sure you know exactly what you need to complete your project perfectly every time.

# Planning permission for oak garages

Let's start by taking a peek at what the law says about planning permission for oak garages. The law, as always, can seem a little obscure. However, here's the basics you need to know.

Unlike housing, you can typically put up small, free-standing buildings in your garden without permission, depending on some key factors:

- The total floor area is less than 15m²
- No sleeping accommodation at all is planned in the structure. 

The law has a separate criteria for buildings that sit in the 15m² to 30m² region. Again, these buildings are usually exempt from the need to apply for planning permission, but there's a few separate circumstances to consider:

- Again, no sleeping area can be included
- All walls must sit at least 1m from the boundary fence
- Substantially non-combustible materials must be used. 

# Looking at the matter in greater depth

Seems fairly easy, right? As always with matters of planning permission, however, there are some nuances to consider. What is an outbuilding? Will an oak framed building count as 'non-combustible'? What is the price of oak framed garages? Let's take a more in-depth look. 

Firstly, understand that, when it comes to garages, if it's attached to your existing home you will likely need planning permission no matter the size or construction material. Likewise, if it ventures over 30m², you will need to apply for planning permission, so size is a key determining factor. Lastly, if you want to convert or build with the idea to make the garage habitable, you will also need to follow stricter building regulations and that means planning permission is needed. There is a fairly complex web of regulations and exemptions applicable here, but as many of you will not be including sleeping space in your oak framed garages, we won't look into that today.

# So, what does this mean for me?

Now you know more about the basics, what does this mean for your project? Firstly, understand that while all timber garden structures, from sheds and summerhouses to garages, are subject to the usual planning permission rules, but the majority of these projects don't actually need planning permission to install.

What affects this? Primarily the size of the building, the location of installation, and, of course, any parameters applicable to your land (like living in a national park). If you meet exemption criteria, you can go ahead and build. Here's some other key considerations.

Buildings will need to be less than 2.5m tall if you're placing them within 2m of the boundary fence. This means most single storey structures are fine, but double story will need some care. Further into your own property, this can be raised to an overall height of 4m for dual-pitched roofs and 3m for pents.

It cannot occupy more than 50% of the land surrounding your home. This is cumulative, and will consider other existing outbuildings. They also shouldn't be closer to the road than the original house.

# What about listed buildings and designated land?

There are 2 circumstances in which standard planning permission conditions will be overridden. One of these, of course, is if you own a listed building. Designated to be of national importance for historic or architectural interest, these buildings are subject to much stricter criteria. Generally, you will need planning permission to build here.

Designated land, the term used to describe areas of natural interest or beauty like parks, conservation areas and World Heritage sites, also have separate rules to consider. Should this happen to include your property, first ascertain if you are in a conservation area, or simply fall under one of the other circumstances. Provided you are not in a conservation area, you will need to keep floor area under 10m², or apply for permission. Should you be in a conservation area, planning permission will be required no matter what.

# So, what is the conclusion?

Planning permission for oak garages and gazebos is not as complicated a process as popular myth wants us to believe. In fact, for most small buildings like garden sheds and gazebos, it won't be needed at all. For oak framed garages, planning permission may be required for larger structures, but the process is likely to be relatively smooth and easy so don't let that put you off. They are typically subject to fewer regulations than other forms of building, provided you do not intend them for use as a domicile or sleeping area. 

Knowing if you need planning permission can help you budget for the price of your oak framed garage more efficiently, as well as take a load off of your mind. Remember, if you have any concerns (or would like further info on the planning process), the friendly Monarch Oak team are always on hand to answer your questions.

