With the current state of global affairs, many of us are finding we have to carve a home office out of the space we have available. That’s likely no easy task- especially with family members forced to all live their lives at home, be it work, play, or anything in-between. Luckily for you, Monarch Oak has the perfect solution- with a home office above your garage, you’ll soon have your domestic bliss restored! Keep your family and your boss happy with one of our stylish (and easy to erect) oak solutions.

## Do I really need a separate home office?

As the COVID pandemic has shown us, humans are great at making do- and you’ve probably been doing the same to get your work in. After all, it’s nice to be able to spend extra time with our loved ones and pets, instead of wasting it in the commuter rat race. 

Yet, for many of us, the daily ritual of grabbing coffee, chatting at the water cooler, and retreating to our desk at work is part of the toolkit we use to help us focus on what we have to get done. Add the distractions of home- whether the adorable and welcome face of the family dog begging for a walk, or the incessant noise of a busy family stomping in and out, or a loud vehicle in the street- and it’s a recipe for unproductive work and poor concentration.

## What makes for a great working environment?

So, while you may have had to make a temporary plan and perch at the end of the kitchen table to get the job done, it’s time to start thinking smarter! The sweeping changes the pandemic has made to how (and where) we work are set to continue for a good few years, so now is the time to get a cohesive strategy in place for the future.

One of the key killers-of-concentration for the human mind is clutter. A workspace packed full of mental distractions will slowly erode your focus. Even if you manage to keep your mind on your work, it’s a counter-productive and tiring way to do it. This is, in part, why having a dedicated workspace is easier. Likewise, most people will want to maintain a quiet environment to avoid aural distractions, but you can’t expect a working spouse or at-home kids to walk on eggshells all day.

On the flip side, we have the need for you to be able to ‘stay in the zone’ once you get into the flow of your work. A key part of this is being able to reach everything you need, as you need it. From easy access to a printer or telephone, right through to a comfortable chair that doesn’t make your drowsy or leave you in pain, a comfortable working environment is one in which you can be productive.

Other key considerations will vary depending on your industry, of course. However, for most of us, daily phone calls or Zoom calls with the rest of the team are a reality. Not only is it key you can hear- and be heard- clearly and without excessive background noise, there’s also an element of professionality to consider. Sure, bosses may be being lenient given the unexpected nature of the changes we’ve had to make… but is having the muddy dog bounce into frame followed by pajamaed kids as you sit there in your weekend beer drinking shirt really the mental image you want your boss to have of you when it’s promotion time? It’s tempting to treat the current work-at-home trend as a ‘holiday’, but far better to focus on keeping up a great image and productive workday. 

## How can Monarch Oak help?

That’s all well and good, but what can you do if you don’t have a space available you can repurpose? Consider an oak home office! Because much of the construction for our oak buildings is done off-site, they’re speedy to erect, and it can be done with a minimum of intrusion or fuss, too. We also take great pains to help clients blend their oak framed building with existing architecture, adding value to the home as well as space to your life. 

With us, you can easily add a home office above a garage- and this won’t be just any space. Warm and dry, it will soon become your favourite room in the house! With curved timbers, pegged joints and individually sourced roof tiles, you’ll have a beautiful, practical addition to your home in no time. Insulation is standard, so even the British weather won’t be able to bring you down! Blissfully cool in summer, but warm in winter, you’ll be able to concentrate on what really matters- your work. If you’d like a little natural inspiration to keep your brain ticking along, we can also add velux windows to ensure you have a beautiful view. 

## Multipurpose and practical

If you’re ready to go all-in with your home office, we can help with freestanding buildings, but if you’re looking for something more versatile to fit into your life, we have the solution you need, too. Add a home office above a garage, combine a log store or storage, or even add stables to your property- imagination is the limit. Our project managers will make sure your design fits into your life perfectly.

While the many shifts in how (and where) we work during these trying global times may be scary, rest assured that Monarch Oak can help you build the oak home office of your dreams- hassle-free, practical and perfect for keeping you on track and productive.
