Are you feeling cramped? With us spending an unprecedented amount of time at home right now, it’s easy to turn your mind towards upgrading your space. Yet, in the UK, that is often easier to wish than to do. If you’re looking for a simple, relatively cheap, fast to erect and yet stylish and long-lasting solution to space issues, a Monarch Oak garden room may be the far better bet.

## What is an oak garden room, anyway?

It’s easy to confuse an oak garden room with a traditional conservatory, or even an orangery, and immediately picture a room that will stand empty for most of the year- but it’s time to think again. The oak garden room takes the very best of the conservatory, and blends it seamlessly with more solid building and insulation techniques to produce a beautiful addition to your home that’s practical too. You’ll be living in-and enjoying- your oak garden room every season of the year.

## Getting to grips with the conservatory and the orangery

But first, let’s look at these two well-known architectural styles in more detail. On paper, they’re very similar. They’re both outdoor extensions of your home that aim to bring the beauty of the outside inside. Traditionally, they’ve looked kind of the same to the untrained eye. The true difference lies in the roof- a conservatory is meant to have a mostly glazed roof, while an orangey typically has a solid, flat roof with ‘roof lanterns’ or domed skylights. If there’s more glass in the roof than anything else, it’s a conservatory.

Typically, orangeries are used to enhance living space with more floor space, keeping the more solid roof to blend in with the home. Conservatories are designed to ‘stand out’ a lot more, using as much glass as possible to create an airy, bright space. That said, the uses often blur, especially as the ultra-modern ‘garden room ‘concept has crept into spaces traditionally occupied by both the conservatory and the orangery.

## Why a garden room will suit you better than a conservatory or an orangery

Monarch Oak garden rooms use cavity brickwork, roof insulation and double-glazed hardwood joinery to ensure that your oak garden room will be the warmest in the house, year-round. Seamlessly blending a full-solid roof with the beauty of glass to add a light, airy, touch to the space, it’s like the best possible blend of conservatory, room and orangery.

Using traditional oak framing on a solid structural base, each room features curved bracing and pegged joints. Our garden room installers will work with you to ensure the design complements your home and flows into the garden beautifully, and every design is bespoke to your needs. The end result will be sympathetic to the existing architecture, ensuring matching tiles and even that the roof pitch blends in. We’ve even had clients extend existing rooms like kitchens with a well-placed garden room extension.

Perfect for use all year round thanks to the high-level insulation, you’re left with a room that’s warm in winter and cool in summer- and brings valuable added living space no matter the weather. It’s better, it’s brighter, and it’s very often cheaper too. Why invest in brick-and-mortar when you can invest in a seamless, beautiful and bright space instead?

## Why an oak garden room is the perfect extension

Abundant daylight, warmth when you need it and cool shade when you don’t- what could be better to add to your home in sometimes dreary Britain? Offering superlative garden views to enjoy, and introducing oodles of natural light no matter the season, you still have all the benefits of insulation and solid workmanship to ensure there’s never a time you can’t enjoy your room.

As if that isn’t enough, an oak garden room, erected by our specialist garden room installers, will go up quicker and with much less structural disturbance than any ‘proper’ room could ever do. Nor is there the need to wait out rainy weather in the hopes cement or plaster dries- you have the warmth and insulation of oak, and a far quicker installation time to enjoy. It often works out cheaper than a brick structure, too, and there’s certainly less disturbance.

The usual concerns with wooden structures- rot over time spent in the damp UK soil- doesn’t apply to oak, either. There’s a reason it’s been used in castles and cathedrals across time! As wood ages, it becomes denser and denser instead of drying out to fragility like many other wood types, and it’s remarkably resistant to both damp and insect pests. In addition to these great features, it’s also eco friendly and sustainable, two key considerations every ethical builder should be making in this complicated day and age. Is there any way that an oak garden room won’t complement and enhance your home? If there is, we certainly haven’t encountered it yet.

Are you keen to get to planning your new oak garden room? Are you ready to meet with our professional garden room installers to design your own bespoke creation? Or do you simply have questions our experienced team can assist you with? No matter what, you can always get in touch with the Monarch Oak team- we’re only a phone call away.