With oak framed garage kits all the rage to add space to your property right now, you may be wondering what a DIY garage kit or installed oak frame garage costs. Well, you’ve come to the right place! Today, the Monarch Oak team will be breaking down how to choose, prepare for, and budget for, the oak framed garage of your dreams!

## Why people are choosing oak

Why is it that oak framed garage kits are by far the most popular choice for a seamless, quick and beautiful home installation? Wouldn’t masonry, or even metal sheeting, match the UK aesthetic better? Of course, taste and preference will always have a part to play, but there are reasons oak is the overall winner! Here are just a few:

+ **Protection from drafts**: Timber, unlike masonry, never drops to match ambient outdoor temperatures. That’s why wooden floors never feel cold like slate, tile, or concrete. Because of the fibrous nature of the wood, it also acts as natural insulation. This makes oak ideal for outbuildings like garages, especially if you want to put a utility room or office over the garage itself.

+ **Sustainable**: In a world where ‘green building’ is ever more important, oak sourced from sustainable, managed forests has a huge role to play. It’s a durable, damp- and pest-resistant material that lasts for (literal) centuries, yet is simple to grow and can be replaced and controlled.

+ **Easy, speedy construction**: Who has weeks to wait for plaster and concrete to dry in the moist UK climate? Using a DIY garage kit with oak, you can have the structure erected in days, not weeks. This also leads to less disruption for your property. You will also be able to start on finishing touches and amenities like electricity or plastering faster, as once the frame is watertight you will have the go-ahead. Weather-related construction delays will be minimal.

## How can I balance style and cost in my oak framed garage kit?

Of course, when you’re planning something as large-scale as a building extension or new building, you don’t want to create an eyesore that will lower your home’s curb appeal! YOu also need to consider aspects like the size of the structure (which will affect whether or not you need planning permission) and so on. For most garages, even DIY garage kits, you will need to seek council permission.

It’s also a good idea to know exactly what you want before you start shopping. Is this a garage for one car, or to accommodate a collection? With Work from Home still a big issue for many people, is it worth adding an office to the plans? Do you need a sport, game, or hobby den? Knowing exactly how you want to use the space in your oak framed garage will help you decide on budget and options that will fit into your life.

One last thing to do before you start sourcing your oak framed garage kit is to step outside and take a good look at the aesthetics of your existing home. It may help to take pictures! With a good idea of how the outside decor flows, you will be best able to choose a DIY garage kit that will enhance the existing structure and soon look like it was there all along!

## How do I balance the cost of an oak framed garage kit with my style needs?

At Monarch Oak, it’s our mission to help you find the perfect look for your home, no matter your budget. With years of experience in the oak framed garage industry, we have the experience and skills to help you find exactly what you need and can afford. Remember, our DIY garage kits let you (if you have the skills) or a reliable contractor you trust erect the unit itself, with full instructions and everything you need, delivered to your door. If you’d rather, we can also have our experts fit the garage for you.

## Creating your perfect garage

We offer a range of oak framed garage kits premade, but we can also create single to quad bay options for you, using traditional styles. If you’re keen to incorporate specific features into your garage, or have unique site challenges to overcome, we can also assist you with a bespoke design you’re sure to love. 

Obviously, we will need to discuss the costs of bespoke garage designs on an individual basis. However, our oak framed garage kits offer you versatile yet dependable style, and can all be seen in our portfolio on our website. 

Our one bay garages can range from £2650 through to £3150, feature dependent.  Two bay DIY garage kits can all be had for less than £4050, and some of them even come under the regulated size for planning permission. Each features a barn-end, hip, or gable profile. Larger 3-bay designs will need planning permission, but you’re sure to fall in love with the versatility and stunning facades on each. Our kits range between £4950 - £5750, and you’re sure to find the perfect design. 

In short, the cost of your DIY garage kit, or even a bespoke oak framed garage design, is minuscule in comparison to the versatility and space it will add to your home! Having difficulty choosing between designs, need to know more, or have specific questions to ask? The Helpful Monarch Oak team is always on hand, so don’t be afraid to reach out today!
