As longtime fans of Monarch Oak already know, oak is in. For the last few decades, we’ve seen more and more homeowners turn to it as a beautiful, classy alternative to drab brick and mortar. If you’re still not sure oak is for you, keep reading- we have all the insider info you need about building with an oak frame.

## Isn’t this an old-fashioned choice?

If you mean ancient, then yes- oak frame buildings have been used in the UK for millennia. However, despite the historic type of tenon joints we use, this is not an old fashioned construction choice. Our oak frames are made offsite, brought onto your site only at the last stages. This enables a slick and fast construction process using smart, modern encapsulation processes to ensure excellent insulation and modern safety. 

Don’t worry! This doesn’t mean you won’t be able to see the natural beauty of your oak supports, either. Depending on your chosen design, you’ll still be able to experience the beauty of a construction technique that seamlessly marries the best of historic building techniques with the convenience and safety of modern advances.

## Can I get my kit from anywhere?

We certainly don’t advise it! While you’ll find cheap DIY oak frame kits on the market, you’re entrusting the safety and beauty of your home to the kit you choose- is getting the lowest cost really the only factor? Look instead for experienced designers with knowledge in the construction techniques needed to make oak a safe, long-lasting choice. Not every architect or designer understands oak frames, and you want lasting quality.

## Get the service you want and need

Who should you choose for your oak frame building? There’s a range of versatile oak kit services out there, so it’s imperative to get the one that suits your needs. DIY Oak frame kits endeavour to deliver all the structural oak components to your door, but you have to take it from there. You’ll also be fully responsible for preparing the site. Remember that almost all kit designs will need more than one person to safely erect! You’ll also need to handle aspects like planning permission yourself. 

This is in contrast to a full-service installation, where all you do is allow the builders onto your premises and they do everything else. It’s always a smart idea to check that the builder is handling everything needed- this can include aspects like planning permission and site preparation. 

## How do I care for my oak frame building?

Your oak structure may need a bit of a clean down once it’s up. Of course, building is never a thoroughly clean process, although our team will keep everything as clean as possible. There’s also the possibility of a ‘water mark’ of sorts, created naturally where the tannin in the oak reacts to steel tools. Good builders typically handle this for you, but if you’re using a DIY kit, be aware of it and don’t worry! An oxalic acid wash can be used as a gentle, but effective, clean up that will showcase your oak to its best. You will need PPE to use it, however.

## Does oak need finishing? 

No, oak does not! It will weather to a beautiful silvery colour with time. If you want to maintain the look of green oak, however, you can use an annual treatment to keep it from weathering. Oak will also hold paint and other treatments the same way that most wood will, so you’ll be able to decorate as you choose, it’s just not a prerequisite. If your oak frame will be exposed to high humidity, however, a sealant or oil is recommended to avoid water stains.

## I keep hearing about shrinkage!

Shrinkage is a natural process that happens in all woods over time. As long as you’re using a quality supplier, don’t worry about it too much. Green oak has a higher moisture content than seasoned oak, but is also considerably easier to shape to your home. Quality manufacturers plan ahead with shrinkage in mind. Oak’s unique structure means that as it shrinks, it gets harder and stronger- in fact, some ancient oak timbers are superior to steel!

Oak will not shrink in length, only in width, so your mortise and tenon joints will not be affected. Surface splits are common in oak that has dried out fully, and you don’t need to worry about them either. Again, an expert carpentry firm will help ensure there’s no downsides to shrinkage. Do try and avoid heating right after the frame is erected, and plan your glazing with an expert who is used to wooden frames. 

## Is oak budget-friendly?

Yes, oak can be budget-friendly! While it’s more expensive than a soft-wood frame (because of the higher wood quality), oak is very competitive amongst quality construction techniques. Our expert team is always here to help you find the right match for your home, too, so if you’re looking to balance oak dreams with a budget, don’t hesitate to reach out to us today! Many competitive solutions exist, from going full DIY with a quality kit and beyond. 

Oak frame is a versatile, practical, and robust building style that looks great and will give years of joy to the lucky homeowner that enjoys it. If you’re keen to get yourself an oak home office, garage, or other structure, drop us a line here at Monarch Oak- we’re always around to answer your questions or help you plan your build.
