Does it sometimes seem merely arriving at a plan for your home renovations is far harder than the actual work? Between the difficulties of picking *just* the right accent for your home, to the frustrations of wading through tons of industry jargon, deciding what the best match for your home will be can be intimidating. But not with Monarch Oak in your corner! Today we take a look at oak-framed carports and garages, how they differ, and how to decide which will be the best match for your lifestyle.

## The technical differences between an oak framed garage and carport

At the heart of the matter, an oak-framed carport and a garage do the same thing- they shelter your vehicle from the elements, and add a layer of security to your parking arrangements. They also enable you to neatly park a vehicle on your property while maintaining a high-brow image that looks styled.

Typically, a garage will be a separate out-building. It will be a fully-enclosed space with walls in addition to a roof. Many modern oak-framed garages are even designed to be multi-storey, adding additional space for a variety of tasks besides providing a home for vehicles. You will usually invest in adding electrical services to a garage, it may need to be plumbed (depending on other intended uses) and requires a stable, prepared foundation.

By contrast, a carport will most typically be open on all sides but the roof. It’s a lighter, quicker assembly, and doesn’t necessarily require foundation work. That said, it’s usually wise to ensure it’s paved or otherwise has a stable, solid footing for your vehicles, especially given the occasionally inclement UK weather. While you may use the shade of the carport for odd jobs in the garden, it’s not a multi-functional building like a garage, and most people do not run full electrical services to their carport.

## When would I want to opt for an oak-framed garage?

Oak-framed garages are a hot choice for stylish homes at present. The soft curves and mellow colours of green oak are attractive, while the ease of construction and range of styles available make it possible to create a stunning visual counterpart for almost any home. Of an oak-framed garage and carport, however, which is the best choice for you?

A garage will win out every time you need to create a more versatile space than ‘just’ parking. As we mentioned above, it’s even possible to adapt your garage to include log stores and additional rooms over the garage proper. This allows you to easily put the space to work. Whether you’re creating a home office, a wood shop or a games room, this is an outbuilding that will soon feel like part of the family. With the ability to add utilities- even plumbing if you truly wish it- in a safe, sheltered environment gives you versatility and protection.

Even if you’re only really interested in using your garage for your vehicles, there's definitely circumstances where a garage is your best bet. Firstly, it’s a greater crime deterrent than a carport, and easier to shield your assets from the curious eyes of others too. If you like to work on your vehicles, or have a lot of paraphernalia to go along with them, a garage also provides more secure storage space. There’s more weather protection, and no risk of an errant stone from a line trimmer hitting your paintwork. Dust and debris may seem like a small irritation for a vehicle in daily use, but if you have show or ‘weekend’ cars, keep a boat or trailer, or anything else that doesn’t move often, you will appreciate the ability to keep the vehicle pristine and ‘ready-to-drive’ without needing to re-detail it. If you happen to own motorcycles, quads, or have avid cyclists in the family, a walled garage also offers a safer, more convenient space for them.

You’ll need more space to plan out a garage than the average carport, although that does depend on how many vehicles you need space for and any additions you will be making.  There’s more planning involved, you will need a foundation platform and services to add electricity, and it’s more important that you select a design that will blend with your home in an aesthetically pleasing way. Garages typically do need planning permission.

## So when would an oak-framed carport be best?

While a garage is an exciting and versatile option to add to your property, there’s also plenty of situations where the open, airy nature of a carport is ideal.

Perhaps the most obvious of these is where you already own a garage of some sort, but are looking for more space. This could be to accommodate a second family vehicle, or simply to provide a secure and safe space for visitors to your home or clients of your business. In fact, you can pair an oak-framed carport to an oak-framed garage with a room over it and create the perfect home office setup! It gives you a professional space that shows your clients you appreciate them, without needing to let them into your private home or garage. You’ll keep points with the neighbours if you have a neat and orderly space for visiting vehicles, too, as opposed to them occupying local street parking or haphazardly opting for whatever curb space is open to them.

A carport is also a great choice if you need cover from the elements in a more open, relaxed setting- perhaps you often work on oversize DIY projects, or need a space with outdoor ventilation to safely use a tool or compressor. While an oak-framed garage can be quick to erect compared to masonry building methods, it’s still a little slower to erect than a simple oak-framed carport, especially if you already have an appropriate flooring in place. Carports rarely need planning permission, too. If you need to get the swiftest option in place, a carport will be the way to go every time.

Oak framed garages and carports both offer appealing, quick-to-create options for vehicles and daily life. Keen to get yours up today? Contact Monarch Oak- we’re always here to help!
