Have you always dreamed of an oak framed garage, with a room perched above? Has our oak Pergola caught your eye? Here's Monarch Oak's take on the [4 oak-framed](https://www.monarchoak.co.uk/) buildings you have to have- and exactly how they'll enhance your life without hurting your budget.

## Is oak framing right for me?

In the USA timber is the construction material of choice. Yet here in the UK, it's a choice we tend to look away from in favour of what we call 'more traditional methods of building, but the fact is we've been building with Oak for far longer than we have with brick. Perhaps you fear it's longevity, or believe that stone or brickwork has to be a sturdier choice. Maybe you fear that timber- especially a solid hardwood like oak- is going to cost too much, or prove problematic to keep up.

It's time to let go of those fears! Glance around many of England's historic buildings, and you'll see oak that's lasted- with the same quality and lustre- for well over 1000 years! Oak is, in fact, one of the few building materials around that gets tougher as it ages. It's strong, moisture-resistant and ultra-durable...what more could you want in a building material?

Yet it's probably oak's versatility that keeps bringing people back to it. There's almost nothing you can't do with this gorgeous wood. Yet despite its massive strength, it remains almost impervious to insects, pests and rot for a very very long time.

Unlike many other, more modern building materials, oak is also remarkable sustainable and can easily be managed in an eco-friendly, environment-enhancing manner. 

Lastly, but certainly not least, there's nothing like the warmth, lustre and expensive allure of wood framing. It simply looks great. Yet, with Monarch Oak on your side, it's perfectly possible to harness that same luxurious look for yourself, at a pocket-friendly price that will beat out any other construction method.

## 4 Oak-framed buildings you need to consider today

Keen to dabble in the beautiful world of oak? Why not try one of these projects on for size.

1. ### A stunning oak pergola or gazebo

   With warmer weather becoming the norm in the UK, your garden is probably feeling more like 'home' than just an empty space outside. Being able to make your garden not only a haven for your soul (and local wildlife), but a vibrant part of your home, too, adds an extra dimension to your life. Of course, it's hard to maintain the same high spirits the next time the rain clouds roll in!

   That's where gazebos and oak pergolas come to the rescue, making your outside space more functional. Not only do you have shade when it's hot, but also full wet-weather protection. Celebrate a special moment with a meal under the stars, retreat to read the Sunday papers, or simply enjoy the very best of the outdoors with indoor creature comforts. The hand-crafted detail of our oak pergolas and gazebos are designed to blend seamlessly with your view, and enhance any home.

2. ### Bespoke oak framed garages and oak framed garage kits

   Unite the very best of old-world carpentry techniques with the motorised hallmark of the modern world! Finding space for a garage in sometimes cramped houses not designed for personal transport can be difficult- but not with Monarch Oak on your side. We have a range of easy-to-install one, two and three bay oak framed garage kits you can purchase, adding instant utility to your home. Add a log store, and choose from a wide range of roofing styles to ensure you make the perfect match.

   Or opt for our  bespoke oak framed garage services. A host of sizes and attractive, traditional styles await. We ensure your finished product blends seamlessly with your existing home and environment. Regardless of whether it's your car, your possessions or your garden tool that will be stored here, you're sure to love the vibrant result. 

3. ### Add extra space with a room above your garage

   We also offer the ability to add to your oak framed garage with a room above it. Are you working from home, and need a safe, warm space to maintain a professional look? Simply want to increase your living and fun areas?  We have the solution you need. From standalone buildings to a top-room, bottom-garage combination, we can help your dreams come true. All our designs are hand-crafted from green oak, using traditional carpentry methods. Roofing options are all individually sourced and carefully chosen to meet your existing home. Insulation can easily be added, ensuring your new living space stays warm in winter and cool in summer.

4. ### Let your imagination run free

   Do you need housing? Garaging? Stabling? Perhaps a workshop, or some extra storage? It doesn't matter what you need, Monarch Oak can help you make your dreams come true. With a massive range of beautiful (and versatile) designs at your disposal, we'll help you find the perfect match. Our project manager is always on-hand to assist you to make the best possible choices.
  
## Why choose Monarch Oak?

Based locally in Sussex, Monarch Oak produces a huge variety of oak frame buildings. This isn't a cookie-cutter machined service, either- we also have our bespoke design and build service to offer clients, and we operate throughout the UK. There's no machine production here- every piece is hand-made, with traditional features like pegged mortise and tenon joints and curved bracing. 

Hand-made doesn't mean slow, however! Before your order even reaches your site it will already have been fully perfected, each and every material and joint triple-checked. Once you've experienced the Monarch Oak difference, you won't go back.

Longer lasting than almost any other building method, gorgeous to look at, carefully handcrafted to stand the test of time, and completely affordable- what more could you want? From a sumptuous oak-framed garage with added room above, through our super-convenient oak framed garage kits, to a stunning oak pergola filled with the scents of spring, Monarch Oak will help you make your construction dreams come true
